---
layout: post
title: 'Project: Bearbnb'
date:   2019-05-09 00:00:00 -0600
tags: project, portfolio
---
<a href="https://bearbnb-06.herokuapp.com">View Live</a>
<a href="https://github.com/chingu-voyage3/bears-06">View Github</a>

Hi! I’m Alex Cannon, Software Engineer and author of this blog. Let me tell you about a project I built called Bearbnb.

## > Background
Bearbnb was my team’s project for Chingu Voyage 3 ([chingu website](https://chingu.io/)). It is a clone of Airbnb. I worked on a lot of the front-end development for this site.

## > Scope
Our MVP included most features of Airbnb. As a user you can host events, join events, search, edit your profile, etc. We used the MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, NodeJS).

## > Challenges
### Git
This was my first team project, so one of the first things I learned was version control! I had tinkered with git before, but I didn’t fully understand it until I started work on this project.

I realized I was doing something wrong when my teammates were very confused about a branch I pushed! After some reading that my project manager suggested, I learned a lot of what I needed to know to be effective with git.

### Calendar Component
We chose the MERN stack for our project, which meant I was using ReactJS. I had worked with ReactJS on many smaller projects but this was the first time I had used it on a full-fledged website.

The main issue I had with the calendar component is that I needed a way to tell how many days were in a month in a given year (we included leap-years) and style it effectively.

After some research, I created a function that returned the number of days in a given month in a given year to solve this. I also used the “+” and or “-” css operator to target sibling days in the calendar (for highlighting) to solve that issue.

### Booking Component
The booking component is displayed on events. This allows users to book days to stay at an Airbnb. I had trouble with this one mainly because I did not understand what props were passed down to that component. I needed to get data from the root component like the rating for the given event, the name, what days were available, etc.

Because I did not know how to do this at the moment (I had been working with ReactJS on one file, not across files!) I finished what I could and consulted with our project manager. She let me know how to get this done and I had a much easier time after some consultation!

## > Close
Thank you for reading! If you like project posts like this, let me know and I can create more of them.

I’m out!
